docs: v5 (#553)
readmeio/api: docs/making-requests.md

---

> title: Making Requests

Author: This page used to be `http-requests` but when this gets resynced when its merged into `main` I'll go into the Dash and delete the old `http-requests` page.

category: 62cc6ce22b8b6601da6cb12d
---

If the API you're using doesn't have any documented [operation IDs](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/main/versions/3.1.0.md#user-content-operationid), `api` will generate some for you to use.

> If you're using code generation these will be immediately available and to see in your generated library, however due to the nature of the [Proxy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy) architecture in the dynamic version of the library this isn't the case. For these cases you can check out the documentation for the API you're using to see.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using code generation, these will be immediately available to use in your generated library. However, due to the nature of the [Proxy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy) architecture in the dynamic version of the library, this isn't the case for dynamically generated libraries. For these cases, you can check out the documentation for the API you're using.
```

With an instance of your SDK, you make an HTTP request against an operation on the API like so:

```js
const petstore = require('@api/petstore');

petstore.listPets().then(({ data, status, headers, res }) => {
  console.log(`My pets name is ${data[0].name}!`);
});
```

Here, the data returned in the promise from `listPets` is an object containing the following data:

- `data`: The data that came back in the API request. Under the hood this is the result of `api` running `res.json()` or `res.text()` on the [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) object from the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API).
- `status`: This is the HTTP status code of the response.
- `headers`: The headers that came back in the response. This is an instance of the [Headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Headers) object.
- `res`: This is the raw [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) object we received from the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API).

## Error Handling

> For every response that is returned with an HTTP status code between 400 and 599 `api` will throw a custom error: `FetchError`. Identical to how responses are returned from successful requests, instances `FetchError` can be destructured to obtain the same data. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every response that is returned with an HTTP status code between 400 and 599, `api` will throw a custom error: `FetchError`. Identical to how responses are returned from successful requests, instances of `FetchError` can be destructured to obtain the same data. For example:
```

```js
await petstore.deletePet({ id: petId }).catch(({ status, data }) => {
  // status = 404
  // data = 'Not Found'
});
```

> Or, alternatively if you'd like to check for an error other than `FetchError` you can do that too:

Reviewer: Would you want to give an example of what another kind of error might be? I don't know if this makes sense:
```suggestion
Alternatively if you'd like to check for an error other than `FetchError` (i.e., an error with the SDK itself), you can do that too:
```

```js
await petstore.deletePet({ id: petId }).catch(err => {
  if (!(err instanceof FetchError)) {
    throw err;
  }

  // err.status = 404
  // err.data = 'Not Found'
});
```

## Request Timeouts

> By default the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) generally has a default timeout of 30 seconds. If you wish to configure this you can with the `.config()` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) generally has a default timeout of 30 seconds. If you wish to configure this, you can with the `.config()` method:
```

```js

> petstore.config({ timeout: 100 });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
petstore.config({ timeout: 100 }); // 100 milliseconds
```

await petstore
  .deletePet({ id: petId })
  .then(() => {
    // goodbye, friend
  })
  .catch(err => {
    // err.message = The operation was aborted.
  });
```

> By supplying a timeout to `.config({ timeout })`, in milliseconds, `api` will automatically initialize an [AbortController](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortController) to handle timing out your request if it takes longer than you wish. Please note, however, that if you set a custom timeout the error that is thrown will be an instance of `AbortError`, **not** `FetchError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By supplying a timeout to `.config({ timeout })`, in milliseconds, `api` will automatically initialize an [AbortController](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortController) to abort your request if it takes longer than your `timeout` value. Please note that if you set a custom timeout, the error that is thrown will be an instance of `AbortError`, **not** `FetchError`.
```
